#Hardware components

= Hardware Components =

RICS is designed to be a cost effective tool for capturing geo-tagged imagery of built environments. As such, off-the-shelf hardware is used to set up the system. At Geoscience Australia, the following hardware components are currently used:

 * Mini tripods mounted on a motor vehicle with magnets;
 * Camera configuration consisting of two, three or four Allied Vision Technologies (AVT) GC2450 GigE 5 megapixel digital cameras (2448 by 2050 pixels);
 * Five port Gigabit Ethernet switch with jumbo frame support to network camera image streams (jumbo frames reduce the CPU load required to handle incoming data);
 * Fujinon 16mm or 12.5mm focal length lenses; 
 * Swann 1020 camera housings providing all weather protection;
 * An Intel® Core i5 laptop with 4 GB of RAM;
 * Inverter to power laptop and network switch;
 * GPS receiver; and
 * Camera batteries.

The hardware components are assembled in the following order:

 # Attach tripods to the camera housings.
 # Attach power (from batteries) and Ethernet cables to the cameras.
 # Mount tripods on vehicle.
 # Attach Ethernet cables from the cameras to the network switch and attach the network switch to the power-board.
 # Attach Ethernet cable from the network switch to the laptop and attach the laptop’s power supply to the power-board.
 # Attach the power-board to the inverter.
 # Attach the inverter to the auxiliary power source of the vehicle, making sure the inverter is switched off.
 # Attach the GPS receiver to a USB port of the laptop.
 # Turn on vehicle and turn on the inverter.

If you do not have camera batteries available, you can connect the camera’s power supply to the power board.